Usage: paw.py [OPTIONS]

  PAW: Cross-sample Epigenome Data Normalization with Internal Reference
  Algorithm.

  This script normalizes a target sample (treatment/replicate 2) to a
  reference sample (control/replicate 1) at base-pair resolution.

  It relies on the assumption that:

    1. Background noise levels are similar between the samples.

    2. Specific regions (e.g., conserved CTCF sites or transcription start
    sites) have similar signal-to-noise ratios.

  Prior to running PAW, ensure that the input bigWig files are pre-normalized
  to Reads Per Million (RPM).

  Examples:

    1. Typical pair-wise comparison:

       $ paw.py -r ref_regions.bed -c control_sample.bw -t treatment_sample.bw
       -o results/test

    2. Replicate alignment:

       $ paw.py -r peaks.bed -c rep1.bw -t rep2.bw -o results/test

Options:
  -r TEXT       Path to a BED format file specifying the reference regions.
                These regions are assumed to have no change between samples.
                Each region must have at least three columns: chromosome,
                start, and end. Regions with a width less than 100 bp will be
                ignored. Example: ref_regions.bed  [required]
  -o TEXT       Output file prefix for the results. The program will generate
                several output files using this prefix, including QC plots and
                normalized bigWig files. Example: results/test  [required]
  -c TEXT       Path to the control sample bigWig file. This file should be
                pre-normalized to RPM (Reads Per Million) or similar
                normalization with total reads. Example: control_sample.bw
                [required]
  -lc TEXT      Label for the control sample. This label is used in plots and
                output messages. Default: 'control'
  -t TEXT       Path to the treatment sample bigWig file. This file should be
                pre-normalized to RPM (Reads Per Million). Example:
                treatment_sample.bw  [required]
  -lt TEXT      Label for the treatment sample. This label is used in plots
                and output messages. Default: 'trt'
  -ext INTEGER  Extension size (in base pairs) to define the region around
                reference centers used for classification with the Gaussian
                Mixture Model (GMM). For narrow peaks, a typical value is
                10,000 bp. For broad peaks (e.g., H3K27me3), consider
                increasing this value (e.g., 50,000 bp).
  -csf TEXT     Path to the chromosome size file, which is required to convert
                bedGraph files to bigWig format. This file can be generated
                using the 'fetchChromSizes' command.  Example: chrom.sizes
                [required]
  -p INTEGER    Number of CPUs to be used for parallel processing. Increasing
                this value can reduce processing time if multiple cores are
                available. Default: 2.
  -h, --help    Show this message and exit.

